\input texinfo
@setfilename AUTHORS.info
@settitle AUTHORS
@node Top, , , (dir)
@chapter AUTHORS - who wrote what on GNU Solfege?

@itemize @bullet

@item Davide Bonetti

Scale lesson files and a document about scales.

@item Tom Eykens

Updated nl.po and translated the user's manual.

@item @email{etienne.bourrez@@free.fr, Etienne Bourrez}

Translated the users manual and fr.po

@item @email{linux@@thibaut-cousin.net, Thibaut Cousin}

Spec file for SuSE 8.2.

@item @email{M.K.Becker@@t-online.de, Michael Becker}

Two lessonfiles: volkslieder1 and volkslieder2

@item @email{olitech@@ifrance.com, Olivier Ahn}

Small update to fr.po

@item @email{danton67@@mailandnews.com, Daniel Tonda Castillo}

Updated @file{es.po} file and added @file{es_MX.po}. Compiled binaries
for RedHat 8.0. Testing and bugreporting.

@item David Asorey Álvares and @email{die@@die.com.fr, Diego Duchowney}

Spannish translations.

@item @email{david@@coent.freeserve.co.uk, David Coe}

Rpm spec file cleanup. Made it more portable and let us junk
create_fileslist.py.

@item @email{dpetrou@@ece.cmu.edu, David Petrou}

Testing and portability fixes for FreeBSD

@item @email{mike@@lic145.kiev.ua, Michael Shigorin}

Russian translations.

@item @email{keld@@dkuug.dk, Keld Simonsen}

Danish translations.

@item Steve Lee

Ported @file{winmidi.c} to gcc.

@item @email{jcl@@cs.brown.edu, Joe Lee}

Wrote @file{winsynth.py} and @file{winmidi.c} that talk to the
soundcard on MS Windows.

@item @email{freddy@@dusktilldawn.nl, F(r)eddy SpierenBU(r)G}

Dutch translations.

@item @email{fchecconi@@libero.it, Fabio Checconi}

The dsp code are borrowed from Fabio Checconi's GPL'ed guituner
program. The @file{fft.c} file was originally written by
@email{richard@@tartarus.org, Richard Boulton} and
@email{suckfish@@ihug.co.nz, Ralph Loader}, but almost
completely rewritten by Checconi.

@item @email{chierico@@writeme.com, Giovanni Chierico}

Some lessonfiles.

@item @email{orloff@@in2p3.fr, Jean Orloff}

French translations.

@item @email{macolori@@tin.it, Mauro Colorio}

Italian translations.

@item @email{Oliver.Vollmer@@epost.de, Oliver Vollmer}

Toolbar icons, testing, comments, lots of bug reports and feedback,
german translations. He made the first rpm spec file and has
helped to improve it.

@item GNU Lilypond authors

The pixmaps used to display music is generated from the feta font
used by GNU Lilypond, copyright Han-Wen Nienhuys, Jan Nieuwenhuizen
and others. Lilypond is the GNU project music typesetter, if you want high
quality music typesetting, check it out at
@uref{http://www.lilypond.org}. Only the generated pixmaps for the font
are included in GNU Solfege, you should check the source tarball for
GNU Lilypond for the source code. This because GNU Solfege only use
a few of the fonts and I had to to some manual tweaking to use
the fonts. I got permission to do this from Han-Wen Nienhuys.

@item Jan Baumgart (Folkwang Universitaet der Kuenste)

The solmisation exercise module.

@item @email{tca@@gnu.org, Tom Cato Amundsen}

Main author.
@end itemize
@bye

