\input texinfo @c
@setfilename INSTALL.win32.info
@include topdocs/defs.texi
@settitle INSTALL.win32
@node Top, , , (dir)

@chapter INSTALL.win32 - how to install GNU Solfege @value{SOLFEGEVERSION} on MS Windows

Installing Solfege @value{SOLFEGEVERSION} on MS Windows is almost as simple as on
Debian GNU/Linux:

@itemize @bullet
@item Download the file solfege-win32-@value{SOLFEGEVERSION}.exe
from @uref{http://www.solfege.org}.
@item Run the file by double-clicking on it.
@item Accept all default values, and the program is installed
in a few seconds.
@item You can start the program from the Start Menu, 
select Programs/GNU Solfege.
@end itemize

@section Uninstall the program.
To uninstall the program, use the 'Add/remove program' utility in the
control panel.
Do not delete the files directly.

@section Trouble?
It is possible that the file @file{.solfegerc}
is corrupted by a bug in the program. If you have strange problems,
you can try to delete the file and rerun the program. The file is stored in
@file{c:\Documents and Settings\YourName}.

If you still have problems, you should check if there is a newer
release available. And if so, test that release to see if the 
bug has been fixed. If not, you can email you can email your questions to
@email{solfege-devel@@lists.sourceforge.net}. Remember to tell
what version of Solfege you are running, what version of MS Windows,
and the name of the soundcard, if you know it. Do @emph{not} email
the author of Solfege directly, because when emailing the list,
other people than me get the chance to help. 

@section Developers

Solfege 3.23.0 and newer can be checked out and built from the
git repository after you have installed the dependencies.

@subsection Setup for running from source dir

Install mingw using the installer
from @uref{http://sourceforge.net/projects/mingw}.

Install Python 2.7 from
@uref{http://www.python.org/download/releases/2.7.2/}

Download
@uref{http://osspack32.googlecode.com/files/pygi-aio-3.4.2rev10.7z}
and unzip to /C/mygi

$ cp -a /C/mygi/py27 /C/Python27/Lib/site-packages/
$ cp -a /C/mygi/gtk /C/Python27/Lib/site-packages/

@section Setup for creating the binary package

While Python 2.7 is _NOT_ installed, run this:

@command{ msiexec /a python-2.7.2msi TARGETDIR=C:\mypython27}

After that, you can reinstall Python 2.7, if you want.

Install a program that can unpack 7z files. Unpack
@uref{http://osspack32.googlecode.com/files/pygi-aio-3.4.2rev10.7z}
to c:\mygi

Checkout solfege with git into c:\solfege


@section Building and running from source dir

$ git clone http://git.solfege.org/solfege.git
$ cd solfege
$ ./autogen.sh
$ make

Then you run the program by double-clicking @command{runsrcdir.bat}.

@section Creating the binary package

Build as in the previous section.

$ ./makeinstaller.sh

... TODO
